Okay, so let's code this part.
So we are going to create our router,
so we are going
to create another service,
we can call that router.js
I'm going to start with an object
pretty simple, with two functions init.
You understand why we need an init and go,
that will ask the router
to go to a new URL.
These will receive a route,
an optional add to history,
that we can say that by default it's true.
Why is this?
Because maybe we wanna change the page,
but
we don't wanna change
the history in the browser.
So we don't want the user to go back,
one example, a login form.
So you're in a login form in
a single-page application.
So you log in, username,
password, you log in but
what happens if I press the back button.
Should I go back to the login form?
No, so in that case we say false
to the second argument, so
then there will be no back
button available, maybe you have
a logout button but
it's not just going back in history, okay?
And then I'm going to export, default,
this router, and
then I'm gonna inject this
router as a global object in our app.js.
So, similar to store, we are going
to say that we have a router coming
from that router that we
are importing from the other module.
It's empty so far, okay, it's okay.
To see if this is doing something,
something that they can do is
console.log going to into and the route.
We can call this path if you like as well,
it's just the same.
Okay.
So, next step, we have these two links.
When you click on those links if
you pay attention to the browser,
mostly the refresh button and
the URL bar, it's reloading.
You can see the refresh
button is changing with an X.
So it's actually making a new
navigation to the server.
So we don't want that,
we don't want links or
links that we want to manage to go to the
server, okay, we don't want that, okay?
So what we need to do
is to enhance those
links, with JavaScript, with the DOM API.
We wanna trap the click on those links,
the activation of those links.
And we wanna tell the browser,
hey browser, don't go to the URL,
I will do that, okay,
that's the next step, I wanna do that.
I wanna take those links and
tell the browser
not to use those links as usual, okay?
So for that, we will do that in init,
within the init,
if we go to index.html,
we can see that those
links are currently
classified as navlinks,
that's a class, it's a classification.
So we can use the DOM API to
get elements by class name or
using query selector and get those
links and see if we can enhance them.
We can change its default behavior.
Make sense?
So how?
Well, we can take, for
example document querySelectorAll,
because we want many links,
not just one, and
we will take all the links
with the class nav link.
And because I'm using querySelectorAll,
it's a static node list.
We can use modern techniques
such as foreach and
I can say foreach link for
each anchor we can call it A or
link that's actually each iteration.
We are looping through all the links.
We are going to add an event listener for
that link for the click, Event Handler.
Again, if you feel is this is too verbose,
you can trick the language quickly
to change the syntax of this.
So far, what happens here is that now
we are within this event handler,
we are in the click of
each of those links, okay?
So the first thing that we want is to stop
the browser for making a new navigation.
So every time you wanna
do that with vanilla.js,
you need to talk to
the argument that you receive,
the event has a prevent default method.
And you can apply this on every DOM event,
not every event has something to prevent.
But when you wanna prevent
the default behavior of the browser,
you call prevent default.
So if I do that, for example, and
then I do console.log link clicked.
We are not calling the router yet,
so it's not going to work.
So we're not calling init.
Where do you feel it's
a good place to call init?
DomContentLoader, so
now that we have a router in
the app object, we can call init.
In this case it's going
to initialize the router,
and the router will, for example,
go over all the links and
enhance those links.
Now that we have that,
if I click on the links,
I'm not seeing that refresh behavior and
you can see in console.log,
it says link clicked.
But more importantly,
the page is not being refreshed as before,
because we are preventing
the default operation, okay?
So what's the next step?
Well we need to call router go so
he can go to the route.
So how do I know where I am right now?
Well.
Let's look at the html,
the html has an h ref property,
that has the target of the link,
that now we are preventing, so
we are not going to that URL but
we can read that property.
Okay, so
we're going to read that property.
There are many ways to read the property.
So let me show you a different
way to read the property.
Just remember we are in
an event listener for the link,
for the anchor element for
the a element.
One way to get the URL.
Is to take a.href, that's one way but
I will show you a different ways.
Another way is to use a.getAttribute.
There is a DOM API, where you can
get attributes by their name.
Is it the same, shouldn't use the same
variable name, is it the same?
Kind of, kind of, this is the property and
this is the attribute.
I'm not sure if you remember,
earlier that I mentioned that
it's not exactly the same but
for this case, it's the same.
Also, instead of using, by the way,
can I use a as a variable within the event
handler that is a different function?
So a,
it's a local variable to this function,
function one, and
now I am in function two.
Can I use local variable
from the outer function?
Yes, that's a closure, okay,
that's known as a closure,
anyway I'm not getting into those details
but instead of using a a closure.
Instead of using a i can
also use event.target.
Before you ask, I know there is another
one known as current target and
they will explain that later.
So, in this case,
is the target of the event, so
this case the click
happen over one element,
that's the target and
I subscribed the event over that element.
So event.target is
the subject of my event.
In this case for this particular case,
every option will work, okay?
Makes sense?
So I'm getting in this case
the hrefAttribute, for what?
For getting the URL so
then we can call go over that URL.
Just for that, we are upgrading the links,
the anchor elements.
So when you click on a link,
I'm reading its href
and passing that value into
my router go function,
that later, it will do something.
Make sense?
So the only thing different
that I should see now is that
Reloading, when I'm
clicking on those icons,
I'm seeing going to/ going to order.
So it's actually getting here,
getting into go.
Again, I'm not creating
a router that is abstract,
that will serve for every web app.
I'm creating one from scratch
specifically for this web app,
later that's an idea you can create
a more abstract router that is reusable.
Okay, but I'm trying to teach
you how that works step by step,
so then you can add more
abstraction layers on top of it.
So one more thing in init
that we should do is to when
we are initializing the app
is to check the initial URL.
Why is that?
Because maybe the user is loading
the app directly in /cart.
So maybe we don't wanna start
always with the homescreen.
Remember that we are a single
page application now.
Even if it's the same index.html,
maybe the user is directly because
the user has just copied and
pasted the URL or someone send you
a text with a URL, and it's a deep link.
To do deep linking into a single page
application means that we should
start here, checking the current
path name of the location,
that's the current URL and
asking the router to go to that URL.
So based on the current URL,
it will load the homepage,
the order menu or other sections, okay?
Make sense?
Again, this is not still doing anything
in the DOM and that's the next step.
So the next step is to actually
do something where you go.
So we are going to write
a lot of code here now.
And again, the code that I'm going to
write is actually not reusable for other
apps, because I wanna go step by step and
then you can add abstraction layers.
You can create your own mini framework.
So then you can create a router
that is multi-solution,
multi-app, or you can use a library.
There are a lot of mini libraries
that are solving this with just maybe
1K of JavaScript.
Instead of using like a big framework,
you can just take a library just for
this part.
So one of the things that we will
check is that we wanna add to history.
So that's the second argument.
If we wanna add to history,
we need to add to history and for
that, we're going to use push state.
And you can see here that I wasn't lying,
that the second argument is called unused,
okay?
So anyway you can pass an empty string or
no or anything we work.
And the first one is data,
that says any, by the way,
that's kind of a TypeScript annotation,
okay?
Any means, anything.
So we can pass, for example,
an object that will include
the route inside, and
later we can add more metadata,
for example,
we can pass on a scroll position.
So then when we go back, we know where
the scroll, or we can make a lot
of interesting things here but
right now we can pass just the route.
I'm passing this as an object,
so, it's more future-proof.
I mean, I can pass just the route
directly, I don't need an object wrapping
the route, but yeah maybe in
the future we will add more things.
An empty string, or null for unused and
then the URL that is in
this case the route.